In the third talk of this convention,
Brother Numeir asked,
have you experienced financial setback?
Has your child faced peer pressure
and we could add or bullying in school?
Do you have a life-threatening disease?
We'd like to continue that list.
Do you face scorn from workmates?
Do you have a personality issue with someone?
Do family members taunt you?
Was we deal with various trials?
We might recall the words of Paul.
He said, the way I'm aiming my blows,
is so as not to be striking the air.
Well, how do we counteract the adversities of this system?
Please find first Samuel chapter one.
Hannah had two adversities.
And they were like, boom, boom.
One two punch designed to drop her for the count.
The first one is in verse two of chapter one.
Alcana had two wives.
One was named Hannah and the other was named Penina.
Well, that's polygamy.
And Penina loathed, she hated Hannah.
Well, it was a second problem.
It continues, Penina had children,
but Hannah had no children.
Hannah was barren and in that culture,
this was a bitter reproach for a woman.
Well, it was devious, uncouth,
Penina really like.
Let's read verse six.
Moreover, her rival wife pondered her relentlessly
in order to upset her, she did this on purpose
because Jehovah had not given her children
and look at the end of verse seven.
Her rival would taunt her so much
that Hannah would weep and not eat.
Well, as you watch the following artwork,
imagine Hannah's distressing circumstance
and then how faith turned it all around.
I couldn't sleep or eat.
I felt my hopes and dreams flipping away,
but even if no one else really understood me,
I knew Jehovah would.
I told him everything.
I knew that the God of justice
would set all matters right in his own time
and in his own way.
Jehovah answered my prayer in such a wonderful way.
I never forgot where this incredible blessing
had come from.
There is no rock like our God.
Did you see the grief on Hannah's face
in that first picture?
The next piece of art, she's peaceful and tranquil
and she's voicing her faith in Jehovah her rock.
From despair to calmness of heart, how did that happen?
Verses 10 and 11.
She demonstrated faith in several ways
and we can do the same as we face our own boom boom,
one two punch of trials and frustrations of life.
Verses 10.
Hannah was extremely bitter
and she began to pray to Jehovah
and to weep uncontrollably.
She was extremely bitter, but she prayed.
She cried uncontrollably, but she prayed to Jehovah
and you're agonizing circumstances
no matter how agitated, find a quiet place
if only in your mind and pour out your heart to Jehovah.
Well, how else did Hannah show her faith?
Well, in that very prayer, she did ask Jehovah for a blessing,
but she also promised to give him something in return.
Verses 11 and she made this vow,
O Jehovah of armies,
if you look upon the affliction of your servant and remember me
and you do not forget your servant
and give to your servant a male child,
I will give him to Jehovah all the days of his life
and no razor will touch his head.
Yes, she was going to give her son
as a Nazareth from birth to serve Jehovah all his days.
A sterling example of faith.
Well, what else likely strengthened Hannah's faith?
Examples of faithful women who came before her
with similar circumstances.
Do you remember Rachel and her sister, Leah?
They were both married to Jacob and like Hannah,
Rachel had no children and there were issues
between the two because of this,
but you see Hannah could look back on that example
and see how Jehovah helped faithful Rachel to prosper.
It bolstered her faith.
Well, what's another way that Hannah showed faith?
Well, despite being distraught,
so distraught that she would weep and could not eat,
she continued her spiritual routine.
Verses 11 says that she would go to the tabernacle
faithfully year after year.
13 through 16, she was misjudged by the high priest,
but she continued her spiritual routine.
Now, as we said at the outset,
the punches that life throws us are different from Hannah's,
but we too can have the same strong faith that she did.
Now in the following dramatization,
though the trial is different,
note how the sister shows faith
like that of Hannah.
I could tell from the doctor's voice, the news wasn't good.
I just didn't expect my health to worsen so quickly.
I tried to act like everything was fine,
but I was fine that I wasn't into Jehovah.
Just knowing he would listen and understand
that's what got me through.
No one really knew what I was going through.
Not even my friends.
I felt like Hannah totally misunderstood,
but she had faith that Jehovah would set matters straight.
And he did for Hannah and for me, but more than that,
he reminded me that I wouldn't have to deal
with this illness alone.
The sister's circumstances were different,
but she drew strength from Hannah's strong faith in Jehovah.
No matter what the circumstances are trial,
how can we imitate the example of that faith?
Well, there's many different ways,
but let's review a few.
First Peter 5.9, Satan tries to beat us up and knock us down,
but we're not alone.
There are others who experience the same trials.
First Peter 5.9, but take your stand against him,
firm in the faith,
knowing that the same kind of sufferings
are being experienced by the entire association
of your brothers in the world.
Reflect on Jehovah's dealings with other faithful ones,
both in the past and in the present day.
Now in 1 Samuel 112, it says that Hannah prayed
for a long time before Jehovah.
We too can gain relief through fervent, persistent
and specific prayers.
Colossians 4 says, persevere in prayer.
When we pray to Jehovah, leave it with him,
confident that he will help.
And recall that Hannah was extremely bitter.
She was crying uncontrollably,
but after she poured her feelings out to Jehovah,
verse 18 says, she went on her way and ate
and her face was no longer downcast.
And then after Jehovah acted in her behalf,
Hannah remembered that and she went back to Jehovah in prayer
and prayed the beautiful prayer in 1 Samuel 2.
Finally, like Hannah, even if discouraged,
we need to maintain a good spiritual routine.
If we allow distress to paralyze us,
in effect, we become a stationary punching bag for Satan.
Stay nimble on your feet spiritually,
active in your theocratic routine.
And like Paul, aim your blows, do not strike the air,
fight back against Satan in his tactics.
If we do all these things, our bond with Jehovah
will grow ever stronger.
And Jehovah will reward our faith like he did for Hannah.
And now Brother Harold Corcoran,
a helper for the publishing committee,
will present the next talk of this symposium,
imitate women of strong faith, the captive Israelite girl.